[Music]
ten proven ways to speed up weight loss
a gym membership and healthy food are
luxuries that unfortunately not everyone
can afford and of course there are those
who can but are simply too busy or lazy
to put in the time and effort as a
result obesity rates tripled between
1975 and 2017 with about 1.9 billion
adults across the world seriously
struggling with their weight the good
news is that there are some simple yet
proven ways to make weight loss a lot
easier and way more effective number 10
eat before eating definitely not how you
thought a video about weight loss would
start is it let me explain this point is
all about when and what you eat
researchers at Penn State University
have found that having a bowl of soup
before a meal can help curb your
appetite this is likely due to the fact
that you have to eat hot soup slowly so
this gives your brain and stomach enough
time to Fortin eight a message of
fullness plus all foods have differents
a shitty levels depending on their form
temperature and energy content it turns
out that soup whether it's liquidy
chunky or pureed beats the competition
when it comes to boosting your energy
and leaving you satisfied after a meal
number nine spice up your food do you
like your food on the spicy side if so
then this tip will be music to your ears
tongue eating spicy food can temporarily
boost your metabolism by up to eight
percent thereby increasing your body's
calorie burning rate it's also been
found to encourage people to eat slowly
which is good for your metabolism too
according to Jacqueline London senior
clinical dietitian at Mount Sinai
Hospital in New York spices have
anti-inflammatory properties and add a
flavor that contributes to the feeling
of fullness in your belly but with a sea
of spices to choose from how can you
find the ones that will help you lose
your gut the most well you could try on
these fantastic spicy for chili powder
that's rich in capsaicinoids takes more
energy to process than other food making
you eat slower it can also affect your
dietary preferences and send
you over to the plant side ground ginger
brings blood sugar levels back to normal
which is really important for weight
stability
you could try sprinkling it on your
stir-fries or even adding it to Greek
yogurt the Indian spice we all love in
curry dishes tumeric combats fat cells
by preventing their growth and making
them smaller
finally the strong smell of garlic
powder will make you eat slower and in
smaller bites which will stop you from
overeating and help speed up your
metabolism
number eight eat healthy snacks eat more
but not at meal times yep you heard that
correctly one of the biggest mistakes
people who want to lose weight make is
stretching the time between their meals
while this might sound logical it
actually ends up making you feel
completely starved before every meal so
you eat more in one sitting you're also
more likely to eat fast which is
something that's definitely not
recommended keep healthy snacks like
sunflower seeds almonds spiced apples
mixed nuts whole wheat crackers Greek
yogurt with berries and low-fat cheese
on hand and eat them every few hours
crisps and fresh vegetables come in all
kinds of varieties such as cucumbers
with hummus kale chips or celery sticks
who said your healthy snack has to be
bland and boring number seven sleep more
I bet you love this one it turns out
that sleeping more can actually prevent
you from putting on unwanted pounds
getting proper rest is really important
for your body to function well a study
at the University of Colorado Boulder
found that people on a diet consumed six
percent fewer calories when they got
enough sleep the experiment went like
this 16 young healthy adults spent two
weeks at the university's hospital which
was a special sleep sweet sounds pretty
sweet right at first all of them got 9
hours of sleep a night and a nice square
meal to feed them they were then split
into two groups the first of which got
only 5 hours of shut-eye
members in the group spent more energy
staying awake and started over eating at
mealtimes think of that the next time
you decide to stay up late and watch TV
or surf the web
[Music]
number six drink a lot of tea you know
the cliche drink eight glasses of water
a day
of course you really should be drinking
water but hold me when you're thirsty
for other occasions tea particularly the
green kind is a better option because it
contains a ton of antioxidants that can
help you lose weight if you want any
proof of that just note that green tea
along with water is the beverage of
choice in many Asian countries they've
been taking advantage of it for
centuries and it obviously helps them to
stay slim as an additional benefit green
tea helps protect the body against
cancer - number five embrace the color
blue we all know that wearing certain
colors can make you look thinner or
bigger well it turns out that the color
of your plate has a similar effect on
your appetite increasing or decreasing
it researchers at the Oxford University
have found that people tend to eat less
when there's a higher color contrast
between their plate and the food on it
the participants of the experiment tried
sweet and salty popcorn from white blue
green and red bowls they noticed the
salty popcorn tasted sweeter when it was
in the blue and red bowls and the sweet
one seemed saltier when eaten from the
blue bowl the lower the contrast between
the plate and its contents the more food
you'll want to serve yourself scientists
have also found that people eat 33% less
in a Blue Room flu is known to calm you
down physically lower your heart rate
and actually decrease your appetite
no wonder McDonald's KFC and Burger King
use hunger provoking red instead of
calming blue in their restaurant decor
[Music]
number four stop multitasking if you're
one of those people who can have their
lunch finish up a last minute report for
work and chat on the phone with their
spouse or a friend all at the same time
you might want to break this bad though
quite impressive habit when you
multitask your mind bounces from one job
to another but doesn't really focus on
any one of them and that includes
thoughts of food this can make you
forget that you're on a diet
so you'll unconsciously dig deeper into
your snack drawer people also tend to
eat faster and in bigger quantities when
they aren't fully concentrated on
enjoying the process of eating number
three laughs having a good lab sesh
prolongs your life and gives you a mini
aerobic workout it causes the heart to
beat faster which increases blood
circulation in the body intense laughter
for about an hour
burns almost as many calories as weight
lifting for thirty minutes
we know this thanks to the research led
by dr. Helen Pilcher who's both a
neuroscientist and a comedian she would
definitely know a thing or two about
laughter and its effects on the body
[Music]
number two sleep in the cold
when we sleep in lower temperatures the
body burns the brown fat stored in the
belly in order to keep itself warm in
order to burn this fat the body needs
heat so it cranks up the metabolic rate
the medical journal of diabetes
published the results of a study on this
topic carried out by the National
Institutes of Health the participants of
the experiment spent several nights in
climate-controlled bedrooms the research
showed that people who slept in rooms
with a temperature of around 66 degrees
burned 7% more calories than those who
slept in warmer rooms the facts speak
for themselves
number one turn off the lights it might
sound a little weird and random but it's
true researchers at The Ohio State
University found that sleeping in dark
places can slim the body down when I say
dark
I mean pitch-black so no phones or
tablets before going to bed and turn
that TV and computer screen completely
off I know it's harsh but think of the
results total darkness is important for
your body to produce enough metabolism
boosting hormones to help you slim down
in no time what helps you personally
lose weight do you have any secret tips
you'd like to share tell us in the
comments below don't forget to click
subscribe to stay on the bright side of
life